# PySceneDetect-CSV-to-Vegas-EDL
Convert PySceneDetect CSV files to Vegas EDL files.


This is a Python 3 script that reads a comma-separated values (CSV) file generated by PySceneDetect, and creates a Vegas Edit Decision List (EDL) (which is a txt text file) from it which you can use as a base for a Sony Vegas/Vegas Pro project (possibly other NLEs as well).

Useful for when editing already-cut material such as archive footage, fan editing, Anime Music Video (AMV) making, or removing commercial breaks from TV broadcast footage, amongst other things.

# Usage
PySceneDetect CSV to Vegas EDL.py [-h] [-o OUTFILE] VIDEO_FILE INFILE


positional arguments:

VIDEO_FILE: Video file that you used PySceneDetect on.

INFILE: CSV file to convert (will not be touched).


optional arguments:

-h, --help: show this help message and exit

-o OUTFILE, --outfile OUTFILE: Name of the Vegas EDL text file. Default: "[INFILE].txt".


This was created with Python 3.6.1 (v3.6.1:69c0db5, Mar 21 2017, 18:41:36) [MSC v.1900 64 bit (AMD64)] on win32 with Emacs and Elpy.

# Known problems

At least for me, when splitting a clip in vegas and having "Quickfade Audio Edits" option (which automatically adds very quick but noticable fade-outs of audio when splitting) disabled, a popping/clicking/crackling sound can be heard when playing the split section. Not just in Vegas, but on rendered video/audio too. This is not true for every split, it depends on the audio, and at some places it is more noticable than at other places. The same is true when using this script to split the video. You can manually work around this error by applying a quick crossfade to the audio, but this can be tiresome if working with a video with many cuts, and crossfades might not be desired, but usually the crossfade is so quick it does not make much difference, other than that you will not hear the click. It seems possible to modify this script to automatically apply crossfades.

Vegas will not ask weather or not to base project properties on first clip. If you want to do this, go to Project Properties either by clicking the gear icon above the video preview or by going to *File>Properties...* Then click the Match Media Video Settings icon which looks like a video reel and a little arrow pointing to a text document. Then choose the file which you want to the base project's properties on.

Audio and video will not be grouped together, so that if you move the video, audio will not follow. This seems to be a limitation of Vegas EDL files. If you select both the audio and audio and video and *then* move the video, the audio will follow. You can also group audio and video for each clip. To to this, select the audio and video clip you wish to group, right-click and select *Group>Create New*. Or use the keyboard shortcut *G*. It might be possibe to make a Vegas script (not something that I know how to do) that groups each video clip together with its' corresponding audio clip.

The script does not detect additional audio tracks. Might be fixed. As a work-around you can select all audio clips in Vegas and copy them into a new track. Then right-click and go to *Streams* and select the desired audio track.
